Here are 9 golden advises:

1) Save with a long term focus! The longer your time focus is, the less risk you'll have of a short term recession in the market that results in an crucial impact of the value of your stock.

2) Buy and sell on a regular basis! Do not invest a large sum of your savings at one time. You risk buying at a time where the stock are the most expensive. Instead, invest you money -e.g. once a quarter.

The same is true for the revision of your stock portfolio. Revise often the  stocks that need to be sold, either because you have earned the amount you had set as a goal or because the stock is performing poorly.  

3) Spread you investments.Do not just bet it all on 1 stock. Instead buy stock in 5-10 companies in different lines of business. Buy first and foremost in growing companies and less in cyclical companies or in companies with high direct dividends.

4) Understand what you are buying! Gain knowledge of as many companies as possible, and only buy stock in companies, that you understand. The more you know about the company, the better the chance that you will pick the right place to invest your money.

5) Depend on your own analysis!
Buy stock in companies that you believe in, and sell them again, without hesitation, if you get new knowledge, that makes you lose faith in them.

6) Invest in open companies!
Invest in companies that follow an open, active and honest information policy, and where the board and management is independent and professional.

7) Invest in stockholder friendly companies!
Invest in companies that in practice have demonstrated the will to do things also for the smaller stockholders.

8) Do not invest too fast!
Most stocks lay still most of the time, and then suddenly rise in a short time period, when you often will not have a chance to jump on the train.

9) Do not borrow money for stock investments!
Only buy stock for as much money as you can spare, without jeopardizing your own or your family's economy.